# TecnoFly remote controller

# Controller for electrical hydrofoil assist system


Why design a communication and control system? Essentially, to have complete control over the code and its functions and develop features for a specific use.
A fundamental choice was to record the entire flow of electrical data from the VESC (75100) and a throttle (ADXL345) mounted inside the board's box.
A data file is generated for each ride, and electrical data on battery status, power consumption, throttle level, motor power, physical position, and acceleration of the board are stored every second throughout the ride.
A Wi-Fi hotspot, generated by the board's receiver, allows you to connect via a browser and view a graphical representation of all the data stored in the last 10 rides.
The firmware analyzes the data and provides the rider with information, on the remote control display and the internal web page, regarding the device's use and performance on waves or pump foiling.
Radio transmission is very problematic in the presence of water, but it is also very important for reliable motor control.
2.4 GHz is very sensitive to obstacles and is completely cancelled out by water. One solution to the problem of using the remote control underwater was to install a passive antenna in the board.

Basically it's a wireless remote controller for any motor conneted to an ESC motor control. It was born for hydrofoil motor assist, but it cold be used for electrical skate, tow boogie an others device.

The receiver is based on ESP32 WROOM U32 module connected to the VESC 75100 by serial rx and tx and PPM. The protocol used for the transmition data is ESP-NOW
ESP-NOW operates as a peer-to-peer protocol, meaning it allows direct communication between two devices. Each ESP device has a unique MAC address which is used to identify the receiving board.

The transmitter is based on ESP32 C3 zero board connected to hall sensor for the throttle and a epaper display 1.54 inch



Main project of entire electric hydrofoil system: www.foilassistproject.com

